#summary One-sentence summary of this page.

= Parser Specification =
== Project Description ==
This project is to allow the Main IMP program parse out data from text files.  It will look for specific keywords and data, and pull it out.

== Delimited Statements ==
All statements need to be ended with a semicolon as IMP will take recongnize a semicolon as the end of a statement.

        [Statement];

*Example:* Revo1 BodyA BodyB 0,0,0 1,1,1 2,2,2 3,3,3;

== Specifying a Model ==
Beginning of each model a Model keyword is used to allow the parser to recognize the start of a model.  This will allow for multiple models per Imp file.

*Example:*
     Model {Model name}  :  Model Hand

== Specifying a Joint ==
To create a new Joint you use the specified Command.  It works for any joint.

{Joint Type} {Joint Name} {Body 1} {Body 2} {Origin} {Point 1/Halfplane} {Point 2/Common Axis} etc...

=== Revolute Joint ===
*Example:*  Revolute Revo1 BodyA BodyB 0,0,0 1,0,2 1,1,1 2,2,2 -1,3,1

==== XPin ====
*Example:* XPin Xpin1 Body1 Body2 0,0,0 1,1,1 2,2,2

==== YPin ====
*Example:* YPin Ypin1 Body1 Body2 0,0,0 1,1,1 2,2,2

==== ZPin ====
*Example:* ZPin Zpin1 Body1 Body2 0,0,0 1,1,1 2,2,2

=== Cylinder Joint ===
*Example:* Cylinder Cy1 Body1 Body2 1,1,1 2,2,2 0,0,0

=== Prism Joint ===
*Example:* Prism Pris Body1 Body2 8,8,8 9,9,9 5,5,5

==== XSlide ====
*Example:* XSlide XSl Body1 Body2 8,8,8 9,9,9 5,5,5

==== YSlide ====
*Example:* YSlide YSl Body1 Body2 8,8,8 9,9,9 5,5,5

==== ZSlide ====
*Example:* ZSlide ZSl Body1 Body2 8,8,8 9,9,9 5,5,5

=== Screw Joint(TODO once implemented) ===

=== Gear Joint (TODO once implemented) ===

== Specifying a Property ==
[Joint Name]{[Property]} = {Expression}

*Example:* Revo1[OBJ_FILE] = "default.obj"

== Specifying Ground ==
Ground = {Body}

*Example:* Ground = Frame