#summary How to install maven.

= Developing IMP How To =

== Software Required ==
 * Java for Developers (not classic) 3.7.1
 * JDK 6 or 7 (JRE is not sufficient)
  * The JDK you install must match the eclipse you use platform wise (x86 vs x86_64)
 * SVN

== Get the source and jars ==
 # Checkout the physicsengine project from https://opal.msoe.edu/svn/physicsengine
 # Checkout the physicsengine-tools project from https://opal.msoe.edu/svn/physicsengine-tools
 # Download JOGL and Gluegen from jogamp.org http://jogamp.org/deployment/jogamp-current/jar/ or http://imp.msoe.edu/files/ (Custom zips of just the jars you need) you need 4 files:
  * gluegen-rt.jar
  * jogl.all.jar
  * gluegen-rt-natives-PLATFORM.jar (e.g. gluegen-rt-natives-windows-amd64.jar)
  * jogl-all-natives-PLATFORM.jar (e.g. jogl-all-natives-windows-amd64.jar)
 # Find out where your System.getProperty("user.home") is defined to. On the school image this defaults to "D:\MyDocs" and a pristine windows defaults to "C:\Users\USERNAME".
  * Unzip the jogl zip to ${user.home}/maven-locals (e.g. "D:\MyDocs\maven-locals"). Make sure the jars are not in a subdir of maven-locals.

== Configure Eclipse ==
 # Setup the workspace jre to use the jdk you installed:
  * Launch Eclipse -> Window menu -> Preferences -> Java -> Installed JREs
 # Make sure the jdk is checked. If you don't see it listed hit add and find its install folder.

== Import the Project ==

 # File -> Import -> Maven -> Existing Maven Projects -> Next
 # Root Directory -> Browse -> Select physicsengine/trunk -> Finish
   *If it whines about not having the connectors then quit the process and add them
 # Help -> Install New Software -> Work with ->
   * https://repository.sonatype.org/content/repositories/forge-sites/m2e-extras/0.15.0/N/0.15.0.201202141716/
   * "Add" -> Give it a name like "m2e Extras"
 # Check the "m2e connector for antlr" box -> Next -> Next -> I accept the agreement -> Finish.
 # Try Step 1.0 again
  

== Import Maven and External Dependencies ==
 # Right click project root folder -> Run As -> maven test
 # This downloads all the maven plugins and external jars (except jogl)
  # If you freeze up at "Downloading..." some random file stop the process by hitting the red square and begin again.
   * This could be caused by any Anti-Virus software you have installed.  A known Anti-Virus that caused issues was AVG.
  # Right click project root folder -> Maven -> Update Configuration. 
   * You can try checking the "Force" checkbox I'm not sure that this helps the process.
  # You may have to keep doing this several times. It'll get through the downloading stuff eventually
  # You'll have to re-add the JOGL jars to the build path (after you finally make it through)