#summary Java API.
#labels Java,API,jmanual

= Java API =
IMP comes with a full API for programming and simulating mechanical links in Java without the need of a plugin or knowing the IMP language.  This document explains the supported features so you can get started on running your own models.

== Imp Engine ==
Access to the API is primary done through the use of an object called the Command Holder.  The Command Holder stores all the commands you pass it in a queue and then will run these commands for making a model when state and loop closure is found.  It also allows you to query the state of the system through getters.

Use this following code template to instantiate and run a mechanical system:
{{{
       Model model = new Model();
		
       ch = null;
       try {
              ch = new CommandHolder(model);
       } catch (FunctionAlreadyExists e) {
	      //handle exception
       }

       try{
              //Add your commands here...
       } catch (SelfLoopException e){
              //handle exception
       }

       try{
              ch.compile();
              ch.verify();
              ch.runIndefinitely(10);
       } catch (LoopException e){
              //handle exception
       } catch (BodyNotFoundException e){
              //handle exception
       } catch (IMPException e){
              //handle exception
       }
}}}

=== Imp Commands ===

Commands are what make up a model as they tell how to build a model and how to run it.  Each supported joint type implements command and can be added to the command holder.

==== Example ====
{{{
ch.addCommand(<E extends Command>);
}}}

== Joint Commands==
These are the joints handled by the IMP API.  For more information on the joints please consult the Imp Manual [jmanual_ImpIntro IMP Java Manual]

=== Revolute ===
[jmanual_jointRevolute JManual]

[http://impsim.googlecode.com/svn/java_doc/imp/core/commands/joints/RevoluteCommand.html Revolute Command Doc]
{{{
RevoluteCommand r = new RevoluteCommand(String jointName, String bodyNameBefore, String bodyNameAfter, Point origin, Point commonAxis,  Point bodyAxisFirst, Point bodyAxisSecond);
}}}

==== XPIN ====
[jmanual_jointXPin JManual]

[http://impsim.googlecode.com/svn/java_doc/imp/core/commands/joints/RevoluteCommand.html XPIN Command Doc]
{{{
RevoluteCommand r = RevoluteCommand.CreateXPin(String jointName, String bodyNameBefore, String bodyNameAfter, Point commonAxis, Point bodyAxisFirst, Point bodyAxisSecond);
}}}

==== YPIN ====
[jmanual_jointYPin JManual]

[http://impsim.googlecode.com/svn/java_doc/imp/core/commands/joints/RevoluteCommand.html YPIN Command Doc]
{{{
RevoluteCommand r = RevoluteCommand.CreateYPin(String jointName, String bodyNameBefore, String bodyNameAfter, Point commonAxis, Point bodyAxisFirst, Point bodyAxisSecond);
}}}

==== ZPIN ====
[jmanual_jointZPin JManual]

[http://impsim.googlecode.com/svn/java_doc/imp/core/commands/joints/RevoluteCommand.html ZPIN Command Doc]
{{{
RevoluteCommand r = RevoluteCommand.CreateZPin(String jointName, String bodyNameBefore, String bodyNameAfter, Point commonAxis, Point bodyAxisFirst, Point bodyAxisSecond);
}}}

=== Prism ===
[jmanual_jointPrism JManual]

[http://impsim.googlecode.com/svn/java_doc/imp/core/commands/joints/PrismCommand.html Prism Command Doc]
{{{ 
PrismCommand p = new PrismCommand(String jointName, String bodyNameBefore, String bodyNameAfter, Point origin, Point commonAxis, Point halfPlane);
}}}

==== XSlide ====
[jmanual_jointXSlide JManual]
[http://impsim.googlecode.com/svn/java_doc/imp/core/commands/joints/PrismCommand.html XSlide Command Doc]
{{{ 
PrismCommand p = PrismCommand.CreateXSlide(String jointName, String bodyNameBefore, String bodyNameAfter, Point commonAxis, Point bodyAxisFirst, Point bodyAxisSecond);
}}}

==== YSlide ====
[jmanual_jointYSlide JManual]

[http://impsim.googlecode.com/svn/java_doc/imp/core/commands/joints/PrismCommand.html YSlide Command Doc]
{{{ 
PrismCommand p = PrismCommand.CreateYSlide(String jointName, String bodyNameBefore, String bodyNameAfter, Point commonAxis, Point bodyAxisFirst, Point bodyAxisSecond);
}}}

==== ZSlide ====
[jmanual_jointZSlide JManual]

[http://impsim.googlecode.com/svn/java_doc/imp/core/commands/joints/PrismCommand.html ZSlide Command Doc]
{{{ 
PrismCommand p = PrismCommand.CreateZSlide(String jointName, String bodyNameBefore, String bodyNameAfter, Point commonAxis, Point bodyAxisFirst, Point bodyAxisSecond);
}}}

=== Expression Commands ===
There are points when making a model that you'll want to specify an expression for a joint.  To do this you must make use of the !JointExpressionCommand which will apply the expression to the specified joint.  Expressions are formed using a !FakeExpression array which is then passed to a Function object.  An example is below:
{{{
FakeExpression[] expression = new FakeExpression[2];
expression[0] = new Function("", "TICKS");
expression[1] = new FakeExpressionLiteral(0.02);
JointExpressionCommand j = new JointExpressionCommand("J1", JVAR.THETA, new Function("", "*", expression));
}}}
This particular code fragment will define the joint "J1" to set its Theta value to the value of 0.02*ticks(), where ticks() is a method referring to the number of ticks performed so far. Essentially it allows you to define expressions as a function of time. 

[http://impsim.googlecode.com/svn/java_doc/imp/core/commands/expressions/FakeExpression.html Fake Expression Doc]

[http://impsim.googlecode.com/svn/java_doc/imp/core/commands/expressions/FakeExpressionLiteral.html Fake Expression Literal Doc]

[http://impsim.googlecode.com/svn/java_doc/imp/core/commands/expressions/Function.html Function Doc]

[http://impsim.googlecode.com/svn/java_doc/imp/core/commands/JointExpressionCommand.html Joint Expression Command Doc]


=== Ground ===
It is a requirement of the IMP engine that a body in each linkage be defined as the "Ground".  The command would be:
{{{
GroundCommand g = new GroundCommand("FRAME");
}}}

FRAME is the body that would be set to ground.

[http://impsim.googlecode.com/svn/java_doc/imp/core/commands/GroundCommand.html Ground Command Doc]

=== Property Assignment ===
To assign properties to a joint, you must use a !PropertyAssignmentCommand.  This command makes use of !FakeExpressions as a way of passing values to it, but in most cases you will only need to use !FakeExpressionLiterals.  Here is an example:
{{{
FakeExpression expression = new FakeExpressionLiteral("BEFORE");
PropertyAssignmentCommand p = new PropertyAssignmentCommand("J1", "SHOW_AXIS", expression);
}}}

For more information on properties, see: [jmanual_Properties Supported Properties]


[http://impsim.googlecode.com/svn/java_doc/imp/core/commands/expressions/FakeExpression.html Fake Expression Doc]

[http://impsim.googlecode.com/svn/java_doc/imp/core/commands/PropertyAssignmentCommand.html Property Assignment Command Doc]

=== Command Holder Methods ===
These are methods that are called to run a model or change something in the command holder.

[http://impsim.googlecode.com/svn/java_doc/imp/core/commands/encapsulation/CommandHolder.html  Command Holder Java Doc]

==== Verify Command ====
This checks the model to make sure loop closure is achieved and that all bodies and joints are linked up.
{{{
ch.verify();
}}}
This method is used if you want an exception thrown to your application when it fails.  Useful for doing your own error checking.
{{{
ch.verifyOrFail();
}}}

==== Run Methods ====
These commands are called to run or simulate the model with the physics engine.

This first one makes the model run indefinitely or until a pause or stop is called on the command holder.
{{{
ch.runindefinitely(int timeStep);
}}}
timeStep is how much time you want between each tick of the model.

This one runs the model for so many steps
{{{
ch.run(int timeStep, int maxSteps);
}}}
timeStep is how much time you want between each tick of the model and maxSteps is how many ticks of the model you want.

This method pauses the model.
{{{
ch.pause();
}}}

This method resumes the model from a paused state.
{{{
ch.resume();
}}}

This method resumes the model and runs it for only a number a of ticks before pausing the model again.
{{{
ch.resume(int timeStep, int numberOfTicks);
}}}
timeStep is how much time you want between each tick of the model and numberOfTicks is how many ticks you want the model to run.

==== Clear/Removal/Terminate Methods ====

This method removes a command from the command holder.
{{{
ch.removeCommand(Command cmd);
}}}

This method clears the Model to a null state.
{{{
ch.clearModel();
}}}

This method terminates the Thread the model is running on.  Useful if you get in a stuck loop.
{{{
ch.terminateThread();
}}}


==== Add Methods ====

This method adds a list of commands to the command holder.
{{{
ch.addCommands(List<Command> cmds);
}}}

This method adds a command to the command holder.
{{{
ch.addCommand(Command cmd);
}}}

=== Information Getters ===

==== Model Getter ====
Returns an object that contains the model.
{{{
ch.getModel();
}}}

==== Loop Getter ====
Returns a list of loops that the model contains.
{{{
ch.getLoops();
}}}

==== !RunningState Getter ====
Returns the current state of the command holder.
{{{
ch.getCurrentRunningState();
}}}

==== Command Getters ====
{{{
ch.getCommands();
}}}
Returns the commands in the command holder.

{{{
ch.getExecutedCommands();
}}}
Returns the commands that have already been executed by the command holder.

==== Property Manager Getter ====
Returns an object containing the property manager.
{{{
ch.getPropertyManager();
}}}

==== Ticks Getter ====
Returns the number of ticks the model has run for.
{{{
ch.getTicks();
}}}

== Examples ==
For example models done with the API please consult the [jmanual_APIExamples Examples] page.