#summary Instructions on how to contribute to the imp core



= Instructions on how to contribute to the imp core =
So you want to help contribute to the imp core.  That is very easy to do.  All you need to do is follow these simple steps:

 #) Create a local repository on your computer.
 #) Do a SVN Checkout on the repository.  The url of the core is:
       impsim.googlecode.com/svn/impsim-java
 #) Download [http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/ Eclipse IDE for Java Developers] for your version of windows or what ever operating system you use.
 #) Install Eclipse
 #) Run Eclipse and when it asks you for your work space point it to the trunk folder in your repository
 #) Import the project as an Existing Maven Project
 #) Install the m2e connector for antlr
  #) Go to Install new Software in Eclipse
  #) Add this site:  https://repository.sonatype.org/content/repositories/forge-sites/m2e-extras/0.15.0/N/0.15.0.201202141716/
  #) Install only the m2e connector for antlr
 #) Right click on the project and go down to the maven sub menu and click on update project configuration.
 #) When that window comes up just click ok
 #) Then right click on the project again and go down to Run As submenu and then select Maven install.
 #) Add in the corresponding jogl jars to your build path and you are done.
  #) [http://jogamp.org/deployment/jogamp-current/archive/ JOGL jars found here]
  #) In your eclipse project, add IMP, Jogl, and Gluegen to your project build path.
    # Right click your project
    # Go to Build Path -> Configure Build Path
    # Click "Add External  JARs" in the Libraries tab
    # Select IMP_1.0.jar, jogl-all.jar, and gluegen-rt.jar libraries

Note that for the Jogl and Gluegen libraries, you will also need to include the appropriate platform natives. There should be a total of five external jars on your build path including the IMP library after this step.